Version 6.1
===========

Version 6.1.0
-------------

This is a minor version release. It adds the following features:

* Add ability to change port to serve pVACview to (``--port`` parameter). by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1354
* Add a ``pvacseq|fuse|bind|splice aggregate_report_filter`` command to filter aggregated report on variant Tier. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1368
* Add a ``--length`` parameter to the ``pvacseq|fuse|splice|bind|vector valid_alleles`` commands to filter alleles to ones that work for a specific epitope length. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1372
* Clarify help texts to differentiate between hard filtering and prioritizing/tiering. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1373
* Add codemeta.json file to repo. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1374

Additionally, it fixes the following problem(s):

* Fix an error in the output parser that occurs with very long insertions. by @CSi-Ti in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1367
* Support splice site with multiple matching somatic variants that would previously throw an error. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1369

Version 6.1.1
-------------

This is a bugfix release. It fixes the following problem(s):

* Revert accidental tdna-cov parameter default value change. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1388
* Add missing pvacsplice.wdl to download_wdls command. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1389
* Fix top score filter to work with presentation/immunogenicity-only reports. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1391
* Replace deprecated pkg_resources with importlib.metadata. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1392
